
# `dunstmerge` - a dunst layout manager

- [installation](#installation)
- [usage](#usage)
- [files](#files)

`dunstmerge` merges three different files inside *DUNST_DIR* into one `dunstrc` file. The files that gets merged are:

- `dunst-theme`  
- `layouts/LAYOUT`  
- `dunst-settings`  

If *LAYOUT* is omitted `dunstmerge` will look in the current `dunstrc` file for the name of the current layout and use that, which will result in a reload of dunst. If *layouts/LAYOUT* doesn't exist, *default* will be used. 

The advantage of using this is that it will be easy to manage multiple layouts and themes, that can be independently generated.

## installation

First you should install [**dunst**](https://dunst-project.org/)  

If you are using **Arch linux**, you can install the dunstmerge package from [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/dunstmerge/).  

But since it is just a simple bash script you can just clone this repository and execute `dunstmerge`.  

The advantage of doing a proper install (*either from AUR or manually with* `sudo make install`) is that the manpage also will get installed. 

The first time you execute `dunstmerge` *(or if the directory `~/.config/dunst/layouts` doesn't exist)*, `dunstmerge` will split the current *(or default)* `dunstrc` file and create a default layout.


## usage

`dunstmerge` [`-v`|`-h`]  
`dunstmerge` [*LAYOUT*]

`-v`
Show version and exit.

`-h`
Show help and exit.


## files

*DUNST_DIR*  
Directory containing the dunst configuration files, themes
and layouts.  

*DUNST_DIR/dunstrc*  
This file will get generated by `dunstmerge` and used by
`dunst`.  

*DUNST_DIR/dunstrc-original*  
If a dunstrc file existed prior to the first time `dunstrc`,
was executed, that file will be copied here.  

*DUNST_DIR/dunstrc-default*  
This is just a copy of */usr/share/dunst/dunstrc* for 
reference. It has very good comments.  

*DUNST_DIR/dunst-theme*  
Contains theme specific settings, such as colors and icons.  

*DUNST_DIR/layouts/LAYOUT*  
Layout specific settings, such as geometry and text options.  

*DUNST_DIR/layouts/default*  
default layout file.  

*DUNST_DIR/dunst-settings*  
Other *global* dunst settings that are independent of the
theme or the layout.  

*DUNST_DIR/dunst-default*  
Default dunstrc, copied from */usr/share/dunst/dunstrc*  

